1) What is hibernate?
Hibernate is an open-source and lightweight ORM tool that is used to store, manipulate, and retrieve data from the database.

2) What is ORM?
ORM is an acronym for Object/Relational mapping. It is a programming strategy to map object with the data stored in the database. It simplifies data creation, data manipulation, and data access.

4) What are the core interfaces of Hibernate?
The core interfaces of Hibernate framework are:

Configuration
SessionFactory
Session
Query
Criteria
Transaction

5) Mention some of the advantages of using ORM over JDBC.
ORM has the following advantages over JDBC:

Application development is fast.
Management of transaction.
Generates key automatically.
Details of SQL queries are hidden.
6) Define criteria in terms of Hibernate.
The objects of criteria are used for the creation and execution of the object-oriented criteria queries.

7) List some of the databases supported by Hibernate.
Some of the databases supported by Hibernate are:

DB2
MySQL
Oracle
Sybase SQL Server
Informix Dynamic Server
HSQL
PostgreSQL
FrontBase

8) List the key components of Hibernate.
Key components of Hibernate are:

Configuration
Session
SessionFactory
Criteria
Query
Transaction

9) Mention two components of Hibernate configuration object.
Database Connection
Class Mapping Setup

10) How is SQL query created in Hibernate?
The SQL query is created with the help of the following syntax:

Session.createSQLQuery

11) What does HQL stand for?
Hibernate Query Language

12) How is HQL query created?
The HQL query is created with the help of the following syntax:

Session.createQuery

13) How can we add criteria to a SQL query?
A criterion is added to a SQL query by using the Session.createCriteria.

14) Define persistent classes.
Classes whose objects are stored in a database table are called as persistent classes.

15) What is SessionFactory?
SessionFactory provides the instance of Session. It is a factory of Session. It holds the data of second level cache that is not enabled by default.

16) Is SessionFactory a thread-safe object?
Yes, SessionFactory is a thread-safe object, many threads cannot access it simultaneously.

17) What is Session?

It maintains a connection between the hibernate application and database.
It provides methods to store, update, delete or fetch data from the database such as persist(), update(), delete(), load(), get() etc.
It is a factory of Query, Criteria and Transaction i.e. it provides factory methods to return these instances.

18) Is Session a thread-safe object?
No, Session is not a thread-safe object, many threads can access it simultaneously. In other words, you can share it between threads.

22) What are the states of the object in hibernate?
There are 3 states of the object (instance) in hibernate.

Transient: The object is in a transient state if it is just created but has no primary key (identifier) and not associated with a session.
Persistent: The object is in a persistent state if a session is open, and you just saved the instance in the database or retrieved the instance from the database.
Detached: The object is in a detached state if a session is closed. After detached state, the object comes to persistent state if you call lock() or update() method.

23) What are the inheritance mapping strategies?
There are 3 ways of inheritance mapping in hibernate.

Table per hierarchy
Table per concrete class
Table per subclass

24) How to make an immutable class in hibernate?
If you mark a class as mutable="false", the class will be treated as an immutable class. By default, it is mutable="true".

25) What is automatic dirty checking in hibernate?
The automatic dirty checking feature of Hibernate, calls update statement automatically on the objects that are modified in a transaction.

26) How many types of association mapping are possible in hibernate?
There can be 4 types of association mapping in hibernate.

One to One
One to Many
Many to One
Many to Many

27) Is it possible to perform collection mapping with One-to-One and Many-to-One?
No, collection mapping can only be performed with One-to-Many and Many-to-Many.

28) What is lazy loading in hibernate?
Lazy loading in hibernate improves the performance. It loads the child objects on demand.

Since Hibernate 3, lazy loading is enabled by default, and you don't need to do lazy="true". It means not to load the child objects when the parent is loaded.

29) What is HQL (Hibernate Query Language)?
Hibernate Query Language is known as an object-oriented query language. It is like a structured query language (SQL).

The main advantage of HQL over SQL is:

You don't need to learn SQL
Database independent
Simple to write a query

30) What is the difference between first level cache and second level cache?

First Level Cache is associated with Session. It is enabled by default.
Second Level Cache is associated with SessionFactory. It is not enabled by default.
